# Pet Care Taker

## Introduction

While we have taken a few different approaches to solving our Grand Challenge, with our most recent being an app to track a patient's depressive symptoms, our overall goal of using technology to aid in solving mental health problems has remained the same. In particular we have focused on Major Depressive Disorder to limit our focus to a prominent mental disorder, as it affects more than 264 million people worldwide according to the WHO. Through our research we have realized that there are many barriers to receiving treatment for depression, and those that can receive treatment may not engage with it or they might even drop out. It is important to have other resources for people to reach out to so that they can find ways of coping with their depression. Currently we are looking at creating a casual video game to help alleviate some of the stress or anxiety that is caused by depression. It has been found that playing casual video games can reduce depressive symptoms, and create significant improvements in mood as well as stress. With this in mind, we hope that our proposed solution can be an additional support for those suffering from depression.

## Proposed Solution and Impact

Given the pivot we have had to make this semester, our proposed solution for next semester is to create a game that could help those who suffer from depression and other mental health disorders. This game would consist of a virtual pet of the player’s choosing that they would have to take care of. They would have to check up on the pet and take care of it by feeding it, petting it, and getting it new clothing items and toys. This would help those suffering from mental health disorders to feel more relieved and less stressed. For example, a study done on children found that video games are able to help the children improve in their ability to internalize and externalize their problems, especially regarding anxiety. Furthermore, studies have shown that pet ownership generally tends to help adolescents and adults well-being. Creating a game that is calming, while also allowing the user to ‘own’ their own pet will help alleviate their stress and other problems.
	The game would be created in the game engine Unity, and would be exported to both iOS and Android phones. The first steps to realizing this project would be to have a storyboard, a design of the UI, and art assets. The next focus will be to have the game programmed and in a functional form. The main focus will be to first have a base game that can be sent to people to see if it helps with their stress and other problems. If the game seems to be doing well within the research group, more features can be added. A completed base game would consist of a main page where the user’s pet “lives” and the user can interact with it by petting, feeding, and playing with their pet. This would also include reminders to check up on him and see how the pet is doing. When the game proves to be helpful and useful, more features can be added such as adding clothing items that can be put on the pet, and an addition of a variety of foods and activities for the pet to do. This includes different backgrounds, mini games, and other fun activities. The ultimate goal of the game will be to create a calm and soothing environment for the user to relax in and boost their mood. This will create a positive effect in the person’s day to day life.
